---
layout: standard
title: Hall of Fame
wrap_title: Hall of Fame
permalink: /halloffame/
---

### The Developers

#### Charles Yates

Charlie was responsible for all of the design flaws you will inevitably
find in the system. He lives in Antwerp, Belgium, with his wife, Lucy,
and his wee man, Dylan. They recently acquired a crazy cat who they
named Buffy.

#### [Dan Dennedy](http://www.dennedy.org/)

Dan was responsible for providing the bulk of the plug-ins, the core of
the client/server architecture, technical experience, insight, and
generally putting up with Charlie. He lives in California with his wife,
two daughters and son, and works at [MobiTV](http://www.mobitv.com/).

#### Zachary Drew

Zach is responsible for providing the new motion tracking functionality
and stretching the framework even further.

### The Testers

Many thanks to the #mlt IRC regulars (located on irc.gimp.net) and
others who we've bludgeoned into submission into using MLT and reading
the various docs associated to it. The list is long and the real names
are few, but to pippin, sxpert, x_or, hermanr, baver, Ave, egon, Budd,
thomasvs, bilboed, hcy, TeTeT, the guys at VMFX, and all the rest that
have yawned and struggled their way through, many thanks again.

### Commercially Interested

#### MainConcept

For the provision of their excellent DV and mpeg codecs which make
professional use of this project that much easier for developers and
broadcasters alike.

#### BlueFish444

For the provision of their high quality hardware (PCI SDI cards).

#### VMFX

For their use and encouragement of the development of the MLT framework
for the [Jahshaka](http://www.jahshaka.org/) project.

### Honourable Mentions

Anyone and everyone involved in the amazing ffmpeg project - there are
not enough superlatives to describe it. Thanks also to the xine team (to
whom we owe some deinterlacing code :-)), to the GTK team for the the
pixbuf and pango libraries, to a secret rabit who gave us resampling and
probably many more who have provided indirect support and inspiration.

And, given that we shamelessly stole their story for our development,
thanks and apologies are extended to William Goldman and Rob Reiner for
their 1987 classic film, The Princess Bride.

### Without Whom...

#### Ushodaya Enterprises Limited

UEL deserve more than a little thanks in the development of this
project. Their acceptance and commitment to Open Source for such an
ambitious project should be considered a source of inspiration to all.

#### BGa

Ganesh, or BGa to his friends, was the visionary behind the project - he
provided the name, a specification, moral support, technical guidance,
and, of course, many, many case of scope creep. Dan and Charlie owe a
lot to him for his belief in them. He lives in India with his wife
Saroo.
